# Homework 3
###### by Mher Movsisyan
---

### Problem 1 (35 points)  
Consider trials 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 of the “Ladies or Tigers?” problems from The *Lady Or The Tiger* logical puzzles book by Raymond Smullyan (see attached inside the moodle assignment). Let us represent the existence of a Lady behind door 1 by literal L<sub>1</sub> and the existence of a Lady behind door 2 by literal L<sub>2</sub>.  

(a) Based on the rules described by the King, propositionalise each trial using these two literals and the regular connectives (i.e. construct the KB for the problem).  

Answer:  
- Puzzle 1:  

$$ (L_1 \wedge \neg L_2) \vee ((L_1 \vee L_2)  \wedge (\neg L_1 \vee \neg L_2)) $$  
$$ \neg (L_1 \wedge \neg L_2) \vee \neg ((L_1 \vee L_2)  \wedge (\neg L_1 \vee \neg L_2)) $$  


(b) Using truth tables find out the locations of ladies and/or tigers for each trial. The tables must have columns for both propositional symbols, all sentences in the knowledge base, and the conjunction of these sentences (the KB itself).  

Answer:  
- Puzzle 1:  
Assigning constants to make our job easier
$$ P_1 =  L_1 \wedge \neg L_2 $$   
$$ P_2 =  (L_1 \vee L_2)  \wedge (\neg L_1 \vee \neg L_2) $$   

  
| L<sub>1</sub> | L<sub>2</sub> | P<sub>1</sub> | P<sub>2</sub> | P<sub>1</sub> ∨ P<sub>2</sub> | ¬P<sub>1</sub> ∨ ¬P<sub>2</sub> | KB |  
| - | - | - | - | - | - | - |  
| T | T | F | 


### Problem 2 (15 points)  
Assume you have a CNF with m different propositional symbols.  

(a) How many two-member clauses can be constructed given the restriction that no two clauses can be logically equivalent?  

Answer:  
$$ todo $$  

(b) Prove that when given a CNF that contains only two-member clauses the runtime of propositional resolution algorithm is a polynomial in m.  

(c) Assume that we are now dealing with CNFs where each clause is of size > 2 (all clauses are still logically non-equivalent). Will the runtime of propositional resolution algorithm still be polynomial in m?  

### Problem 3 (35 points)  
Consider the following slightly modified version of a logic puzzle created by Lewis Carroll:  

```
No hoofed mammals, except giraffes, are 20 feet high.
There are no hoofed mammals here that belong to anyone but me.
All giraffes like San Diego.
I have no hoofed mammals less than 20 feet high.
Melman is a hoofed mammal that is here.
```  

(a) Translate the given KB into first-order definite clauses. Use predicates Hoofed(x), Giraffe(x), Tall(x), Here(x), Mine(x), LikesSanDiego(x) and the constant symbol MELMAN.  

(b) Use the forward-chaining inference algorithm to prove that Melman likes San Diego. Indicate which conclusions were added to the KB at each iteration (don’t forget to show that all necessary premises were satisfied in each case of addition).  

(c) Draw the proof tree that is generated by the procedure in (b).  

(d) Use FOL resolution algorithm to prove that Melman likes San Diego.  

### Problem 4 (15 points)  
Consider another logic puzzle by Lewis Carroll:  

```
All hummingbirds are richly colored.
No large birds live on honey.
Birds that do not live on honey are dull in color.
```  

(a) Translate the given KB into first-order language. Instead of using negation, introduce new predicates when needed.  



(b) What can you infer from the knowledge that you have? Use contrapositions when needed.